truth to Abram after the battle that took place, and after the victory that
Abram secured, and bringing Lot back. And we come to chapter number 15, and the
Bible says, after these things, you notice it begins in verse number one, after
these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abram in a vision, saying, notice
what God says to Abram. What a blessed greeting. It says, fear not. Fear not, Abram.
I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward. Isn't that a great truth that God
gives? He goes on, and we find that Abram responds in verse number two, and he
says, Lord God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? The steward of my
house is this Eleazar of Damascus. And Abram said, behold to me thou hast given
no seed, and lo, one born in my house is mine heir. This is the logic that Abram
is having, as he's having this conversation here with God. And we find
that in verse number four, the Bible says, behold, the word of the Lord came unto
him, saying, this shall not be thine heir. By the way, if he's Lord and he's master,
then what he says goes. Amen? So Abram says, you've not given me an heir. I've
gone childless. I know the promise that you gave, but I've not had any children.
We're childless, and so this one that's born in mine house, this Eleazar of
Damascus, then he could be the heir, and God, the Lord, the master, he says, this
shall not be thine heir. It's pretty clear, is it not? Notice, it's interesting,
but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.
Notice what God does in the next couple of verses of Scripture as God confirms who
he is, and it reminds Abraham of two powerful truths in these next couple of
verses, and provides him with a promise. It says in verse number five, and he
brought him forth abroad and said, notice what God says to Abram, look now toward
heaven and tell the stars. Have you ever walked outside and just looked up? I
understand that you've traveled, I've traveled, and there's some places of the
country that you can go that it seems like the stars just shine brighter. Why is
that? Well, it's because if you're near a city and there's all the city light, well
then you can't see as well, and other factors with regard to pollution and
what have you. I've been out in Arizona. I was in Sedona about, I don't know, 15
years ago, 14 years ago now we're in Sedona, and we were out there. We had the
opportunity to go, and it was very interesting. They have all of these rules
with regard to the height of any lights in the city, in the city proper, because
they don't want to mess with being able to see the stars. And you begin to see,
and here it says, look toward heaven and tell the stars. Now remember, it's Elohim,
the first mention, the truth that we looked at that very first week in
Genesis chapter number one, where the Bible said that he made the stars also.
And now we find that he says to Abram, and tell the stars, notice, if thou be
able to number them. Isn't that interesting? Now you know what the Bible tells us? The
Bible tells us that God has a name for the stars. He calls them by their name,
but he says to Abram, go out and look toward heaven and tell the stars if
thou be able to number them. And he said unto him, so shall thy seed be. What a
promise. I mean, what a truth that God reveals to Abram as he takes him and he
gives him this visual aid to teach a lesson. And he says, look at the stars. Are
you able to number them? And he says, so shall thy seed be. Now this is a promise
that is far-reaching. This is something that Abram would not see in his life, but
we find that God gives him this promise. It says, and he believed in the Lord and
he counted it to him for righteousness. And he said unto him, I am the Lord that
brought thee out of the Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this land to inherit it.
God then reminds Abram of the second truth. The first one is that he's creator
in verse number five. In verse number seven, he reminds Abram of God's work in
his life personally. I brought you out of the Ur of the Chaldees to give thee this
land to inherit it. Now I want you to think just for a moment. God called Abram and
you could go back and we could study. We don't have time this evening here on a
Wednesday evening, but you go back to Genesis chapter number 12 and just very
quickly, the Bible says, and the Lord said unto Abram, get thee out of thy country
and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee.
We read the book of Hebrews and we find that he went out looking for a land. He
didn't know where he was going, but God was bringing him. And when the Bible tells
us here that he brought him out to give him a land, to give thee this land to
inherit it. We begin to think about this truth that God gives in verse number
seven and we begin to understand that even for us this evening as we understand
Abram in this particular account and understanding this evening that that God
brought him out of the Ur of the Chaldees to give him a land, a land that he did
not, of course, for he was there, but of course his descendants for a long time
did not have the land. And we understand even as you go further into this 15th
chapter, that it's in verse number 13 that he talks to him about the 400 years
in verse number 16 until the iniquity of the Amorites is full with regard to this
long term. But God is eternal. The Lord, our master, he knows all things, he do
with all things well, and he brought him out so they could bring him in and we
are to give him this. And I begin to think about my own life and your life
this evening and the work that God did in our lives that we could not do on our
own. Amen? He saved you. Did he not? If you're here tonight, you're saved by the
grace of God. You know that heaven is your home. He did something for you that
no one else could do for you. He did something for you that you couldn't do
for yourself. And I'm thankful that he's Savior. But the truth this evening is
that he's not just Savior, he's Savior and he's master. He's Savior and he's
Lord. D.L. Moody famously said, if he's not Lord of all, he's not Lord at all. So
often what we struggle with so often in our lives is that we want to be the king
of our lives. We want to be the one that makes the decision of what we're going to
do and how we're going to do and so on and so forth. And so we find that as we
get a look at this, and again, Abram is going to acknowledge in verse number
eight and he said, Lord God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it? And God
gives them. And of course, we see the Abrahamic covenant here and what a
great truth that God gives. By the way, Abraham was asleep. It was a covenant
that God made on his own by his own self and we can rejoice in that. We
understand that we still talk about the Abrahamic covenant this evening and to
this very day. Indeed, tonight as we look at the name Adonai, it is imperative for
God's people to recognize his lordship and also to submit to his authority.
Because when we recognize his lordship, it results in submitting to his
authority. If we say with our lips that he is Lord, but our behavior is one of no
submission, then we've not really made him Lord. Does that make sense tonight?
So if we acknowledge or recognize his lordship, we must also submit to his
authority. Jesus is my savior. Praise God for that. But he's also my master.
We sing many songs about God being our master. My life, Lord, is yours to control.
Take my life and let it be. I surrender all, all to Jesus. We speak about those
songs, we sing those songs, and what wonderful songs they are. And this
evening as we kind of trace the name Adonai through the scriptures, I want you
to think of three thoughts tonight with regard to how the name Adonai should
impact us. Lord. Master. Number one, it should result in surrender. Surrender.
Look at Isaiah 6, if you will. Isaiah 6 is a familiar verse of scripture or
passage of scripture. In Isaiah chapter number 6, we're familiar with the passage
because it's in that chapter in which we see the call and commission of Isaiah.
And we find that it's here, the Bible tells us, as we begin reading the sixth
chapter of the book of Isaiah, that it was in the year that King Uzziah died. And
we find that in verse number 1 and again in verse number 11, God's name
Adonai is used. And notice what the Bible says in verse number 1, in the year
that King Uzziah died. Now King Uzziah, he was the king. He was the king of Judah. We
find that of Judah there, and he said, I also saw the Lord sitting upon a throne
high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple. And so we find that Uzziah,
after all these years of being the king, now he dies. And Isaiah says, I saw the
Lord. Where's he sitting?
upon a throne. That's his rightful place, is it not? We understand that he is king of
kings and lord of lords. He's the great I Am. And we find that he's sitting upon a throne.
It tells us that he was lifted up and his train filled the temple. I mean, Isaiah got
a proper view of God in this passage of Scripture. It goes on in which we read that the Bible
says, above it stood the seraphims. Each one had six wings. With twain he covered his face
and with twain he covered his feet. And with twain he did fly. And one cried unto another
and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory.
The post of the door moved at the voice of him that cried. And the house was filled with
smoke. And then said I, woe is me, for I am undone, because I am a man of unclean lips.
And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, for mine eyes have seen the king, the
Lord of hosts. Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which
he had taken with the tongs from off the altar. And he laid it upon my mouth and said, Lo,
this hath touched thy lips, and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged. Notice
in verse 8, also I heard the voice of the Lord saying, Whom shall I send, and who will
go for us? Then notice, this is the first thought with this truth of Adonai. The question
is given in verse number 8, Whom shall I send and who will go for us? What's the answer?
Here am I, send me. Why is that the answer? Well, because he saw him as Lord, as master.
We find that he says, Here am I, send me. And he said, verse number 9, Go and tell this
people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not, and see indeed, but perceive not. Make the
heart of those people fat, make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes, lest they see
with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert
and be healed. That's the mission that is given to Isaiah. By the way, not an easy mission.
We find that Isaiah asks, Then said I, Lord, Adonai, he's master, how long? And he answered
until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land
be utterly desolate. Isaiah had been given a mission, and Isaiah says, Here am I, send
me. He answers that call because he sees God as Lord, as master. And so therefore, he surrenders.
Ephesians 5, as far as a New Testament parallel, Ephesians chapter number 5 and verse number
17, notice what we read here in this portion of Scripture. The Bible says this in Ephesians
5 and verse number 17, Wherefore, be ye not unwise, notice what it says, but understanding
what the will of the Lord is. Not understanding what your will is, but understanding what
the will of the Lord is. And once I properly understand what the will of the Lord is, when
I understand that he is Lord, that he is master, again, I have recognized his lordship
that I must submit to his authority. And it's absolutely imperative this evening that we
see this truth of Lord and master, and it results in this surrender. This evening as
we consider this name, this Hebrew name of God, Adonai, we must ask ourselves the question,
is he Lord of my life? Am I surrendered to him? If God were to say to you this evening,
I want you to do X, Y, or Z, I want you to go, I want you to give, I want you to whatever,
is he Lord? Is he master? Are we surrendered? It's a question that requires some soul searching.
It's a question I think that many of us would like to answer immediately in the affirmative,
I'll say yes, Lord. But the reality is that you have a will and I have a will. But when
we recognize he's Lord, we can come to that place of just surrender. Lord, whatever you
want, wherever you want, take me, use me, however you see fit, because all that we are
is only because of God's grace. Notice number two, think about this, not only surrender
but sacrifice. From the book of Malachi, if you will, Malachi is a rich book that we don't
visit very often, the last book of the Old Testament. I want you to look in Malachi chapter
number one. I want you to look at a few verses of scripture. We see this name Adonai in verse
number 14. We see other names of God throughout the passage. We're going to begin reading
in verse number six. I want you to notice this truth of sacrifice this evening from
this passage. Notice the Bible says in verse number six, a son honoreth his father and
a servant his master. If then I be a father, where is mine honor? And if I be a master,
where is my fear? Sayeth the Lord of hosts unto you, O priests that despise my name,
and ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name? Notice what they did. Ye offered polluted
bread upon mine altar. And ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? And that ye say, The
table of the Lord is contemptible. Notice in verse eight, and if you offer the blind
for sacrifice, is it not evil? And if you offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? Notice
this. He says, Offer it now unto thy governor. Will he be pleased with thee or accept thy
person? Sayeth the Lord of hosts. You know what's happening? If I could just pause for
a moment and kind of help us understand exactly what's going on. They were to bring the best
of their offering to the Lord. But here they find themselves in a place where they're going
and they're trying to find something that's, as it's described in verse number eight, blind
or lame. They're trying to find something that they'll easily part with that will bring
this for a sacrifice because I'm not going to take the best. And here's what God says.
Take it to your governor, humanly speaking, and see if your governor will be pleased with
thee. That's kind of interesting, is it not? Because I think each of them could easily
be able to answer the question that, no, this would not be acceptable to the human leadership.
So God says, why are you bringing me such an offering? Is he not worthy of our best?
Of that sacrifice? And we find in verse nine, and now I pray you beseech God that he will
be gracious unto us. This hath been by your means. Will he regard your person, sayeth
the Lord of hosts, who is there even among you that would shut the doors for not? Neither
do you kindle fire on mine altar for not. I have no pleasure in you, sayeth the Lord
of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand. For from the rising of the sun,
even unto the going down of the same, my name, my name shall be great among the Gentiles
and in every place and shall be offered unto my name and a pure offering for my name shall
be great among the heathen, sayeth the Lord of hosts. Did you notice in verse number 11
that his name is mentioned three times? That phrase, my name. We find that verse number
12, but ye have profaned it. In that, you say, the table of the Lord is polluted and
the fruit thereof, even his meat is contemptible. Ye said also, behold, what a weariness it
is, is it? And ye have snuffed at it, sayeth the Lord of hosts. And ye brought that which
was torn and the lame and the sick. Thus ye brought an offering. Should I accept this
of your hand, sayeth the Lord? Cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male and
voweth and sacrifices unto the Lord a corrupt thing. For I am a great king, sayeth the Lord
of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen. Think about the truth of Malachi
chapter number 1 and the sacrifice. And I'm thankful to live on this side of Calvary that
we're not bringing the same types of sacrifices that are being spoken of here in the book
of Malachi. But you know the reality is that we too still today are to bring, our bodies
are to be a living sacrifice, Romans chapter 12 verses 1 and 2. We find Hebrews chapter
13 and verse number 15 talks about the sacrifice of our lips. What are we doing? We're giving
thanks, praise unto his name and he refers to it in Hebrews 13 and verse number 15 as
being a sacrifice that we're offering to him, the sacrifice of praise to God continually.
We find that it was the sacrifice, if you will, as we find that Paul is writing to the
church in Philippi and he's commending them in the fourth chapter for the fact that they
had communicated with him once and again and he said that their offering, their giving,
their sacrificial giving, that it was an odor of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable,
pleasing to God. And then we read this in Revelation chapter 4. Turn there if you will.
Revelation chapter 4, we'll get there in just a few more weeks in our Sunday night study
through the book of Revelation. We find in Revelation 4 and 5 wonderful scenes that God
gives us into the throne room of heaven. We find in Revelation chapter 4 and verse number
Notice this, thou art worthy, O Lord,
to receive glory and honor and power,
for thou hast created all things
and for thy pleasure they are and were created.
You know, he's gonna be worthy on that day,
but you understand he's worthy on this day, amen?
He's gonna be worthy of all of this,
but he is worthy of all of this.
It's not just a look to the future type of,
he'll be worthy in that day, no, he's worthy in this day.
He's worthy of our praise.
He's worthy to receive glory and honor.
We find, as we think about the name Adonai,
Lord, Master, Surrender, Sacrifice,
and let me say this, a third word to leave with you
this evening, service, service.
Because he's my Lord and my Master, I desire to serve him.
I get to serve him.
There's such a misconception this evening
amongst so many in the religious world,
if I could use that terminology this evening,
this misconception of having to do good works
in order to get saved, do good works in order to stay saved,
and we understand the Bible very plainly, clearly teaches
that it's not by works of righteousness which we have done.
There's no work that you can do to get saved.
There's no work you can do to stay saved.
The reality is because we are saved,
God gives us the liberty to be able to serve him.
And what a blessing to be known as his workmanship
created in Christ Jesus.
Paul says it this way in 1 Timothy chapter one
and verse number 12, and I thank Christ Jesus, our Lord,
who hath enabled me for that he counted me faithful,
putting me into the ministry.
That Paul was recognizing the lordship
of the Lord Jesus Christ.
Yes, he is my savior, but he's my master,
and I'm now privileged, I have this opportunity
to serve the king of kings and lord of lords,
and his yoke is light, it's easy,
and we find that he empowers us and he encourages us,
he equips us for the work that he's called us to do,
and we get to serve our master.
What a blessing, what a blessing
to be the servants of the Lord Jesus Christ, our master.
You know, it's interesting, there's a contrast
in Romans chapter number six that talks about the fact
that we were the servants of sin,
but now we're the servants of righteousness.
And by the way, I'd rather be a servant of righteousness
than a servant of sin, amen?
And we get to serve God, and when we understand
that he is Lord and master, there should be nothing
that he could ask of you or me
that we would not be willing to do.
I used the example several months ago,
maybe a couple of months ago now, of a clip I heard,
I was just moving the van, I wasn't even driving real far,
and the AFR was on, and the church van,
and American Family Radio,
and Alex McFarland was talking on there,
and he talked about how blessed he was after he got saved
to just be able to serve God in any capacity,
and how he rejoiced because the first job he ever got
was to go clean the bathrooms at their church.
And he was rejoicing in it, why?
Because he said, I get to serve the Lord.
I just get to serve the Lord.
I mean, now he's written, I don't know how many books
he's written, he's preaching all over the country,
the world, I mean, it's amazing,
but he just had this perspective that he's my savior, yes,
but he's my Lord, he's my master, and I get to serve him.
James chapter number four, a passage of scripture
that we often will reference when we talk about
the opportunity that we have to serve the Lord,
and we find here in James four, in verse number 15,
the Bible says this, for that ye ought to say,
if the Lord will, we shall live, and do this or that.
He's talking about those that are saying,
we're gonna go and we're gonna do this,
we're gonna buy and sell and get gain,
and of course, in the text of passage here,
the text of scripture, he says, what is your life?
It's a vapor that appears for a little time
and then vanisheth away, and we find that it says
that we ought to say, if the Lord will,
if our master wills, then we shall live
and we shall do this or that, but we have to recognize
he's the one that gives us life,
he's the one that gives us the opportunities.
I don't wanna finish this evening with a passage
in the book of Luke where the Lord Jesus Christ
is speaking in Luke chapter six,
and I want you to look in Luke chapter number six
here this evening, just for a few minutes
before we go to our prayer time,
I want you to see in this passage of scripture
this wonderful truth of the Lord Jesus Christ
being not only our savior, but our master.
Someone, I don't know who it was,
but they said in recent years, many people today
are looking for a savior,
but they're not looking for a master.
The reality is that he is savior and master.
He's savior and he's master, he's Lord.
We come to Luke chapter number six,
and I'm gonna read just verse number 46
and make a few comments before we enter
into our prayer time, but notice here
what the scriptures say, and why, why?
Call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say.
Isn't that a convicting verse of scripture?
God in flesh, the Lord Jesus Christ.
He says, why call ye me Lord?
Now, the reality is that it would be appropriate
to call him Lord, for he is, amen?
And we find that it's appropriate,
it is necessary that we acknowledge that
and recognize that, but I said by way
of introduction this evening that it's imperative
that we recognize his Lordship,
but the same truth is that we must also submit
to his authority, because if I acknowledge
his Lordship and fail to submit to his authority,
then we must really review that thing
and say, did I really acknowledge his Lordship?
Did I really recognize who he is?
And here in Luke six, in verse 46, it says,
why call ye me Lord, Lord, and do not the things
which I say?
Now, what would a master expect
of a subject to do at their command?
Whatever it is, would you agree?
Do you remember the centurion, the book of Matthew?
The centurion comes to the Lord Jesus Christ,
and he was in a spot where he needed God
to do something that no one else could do.
He needed a miracle to take place,
and we find that you come and you look
through this passage of Scripture in Matthew,
chapter number eight, and he comes,
and we find that the centurion, he comes,
and he says that he had a servant
that was sick of the palsy.
Now, the centurion had a measure of authority, did he not?
He had authority, and in the passage of Scripture,
we find that Jesus was prepared to go,
and yet he understood, this centurion understood,
that the Lord Jesus Christ could speak the word only,
and his servant could be healed,
that distance was no problem.
And then here's what he says.
I say to this one, go, and what does he do?
He goes.
I say to this one, come, and what does he do?
He comes.
I say do this, and he does what I,
well, what is he communicating?
Well, he's communicating authority and submission,
is he not?
Now, if a centurion has that kind of control,
if I could use that word, I wonder this evening
when we look at our Lord and our Savior,
he's a good God, he's a good God.
He equips us, he's right there beside,
he enables us, he's with us,
and he says, here's what I want you to do.
Remember, we looked there at the book of Ephesians
in chapter five, verse 17,
knowing what the will of the Lord is,
and that we just come to the place of surrender,
submission to his authority,
that when God says go, we go,
when he says come, we come,
when he says do this, we do this,
why, because he's my Lord and my Savior this evening.
It's absolutely necessary in the world in which we live,
listen, we live in a culture tonight
where so many people are teaching us,
we've been given this mindset that you're your own person.
You do what you wanna do.
You do what makes you happy, right?
Is that not the world that we live in?
Come on, I'm not the only one that lives in this world.
This is the world that we live in,
the mindset that is being given to our young people
that was given to us is you be your own master.
You do what you wanna do.
No one's gonna tell me what to do.
He's my Lord, Adonai, he's my master,
and we need to recognize his authority, his Lordship,
and we must.
submit. We must submit. By the way, it's always best when we submit to His will. Why? Because
His will is perfect. His will is perfect. And this evening, who's Lord of your life?
Don't answer too quickly. Who's Lord of your life? I hope that tonight each of us could
say He is Lord of my life. That I've come to that place of full surrender, yielded.
I am a living sacrifice. God, you did for me what I couldn't do for myself. Remember
what He said to Abram? Come on, come out here. Look at these stars. Can you number them?
How about, do you remember that I brought you out of the Ur of the Chaldees into a land?
Listen, He's done so many things for us. He is worthy of our submission that we'd acknowledge
who He is in our lives and live daily to bring glory to His name. Let's pray. Father, we
love you. Thank you for loving us. Thank you for your word. I thank you for this truth
tonight. Lord, I pray that as many in the scriptures, Isaiah, as we looked at there
in Isaiah 6, recognized your Lordship and submitted to your authority. When acknowledging
that you're Lord, that you're master, and whom shall we send? Who will go for us? Here
am I. Send me. How long? Lord, help us to be surrendered, yielded. Help us, Lord, to
sacrifice ourselves, Lord, a living sacrifice which is holy and acceptable, pleasing to
thee, Lord. Help us to serve you, to do the things that you've commanded us to do, to
do them with joy, because we get to do them for you. Bless our time of prayer. We pray
that through all that's said and done that you'd be glorified. For it's in Christ's name
we pray. Amen.